---
title: Training a model
date: 1970-01-07
---
After we have collected and labeled our first round of images, we are ready train our model! Training the model is broken up into 3 parts:
1. Download the training data
2. Train a TensorFlow model
3. Convert the model to TensorFlow.js

## Installation
To train our we need to install TensorFlow and a few other requirements:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Compile the protobufs:
```bash
protoc object_detection/protos/*.proto --python_out=.
```

## Download the training data
We can download our training data by running the following command:
```bash
python -m bucket.download
```

The script will download the image data in our bucket and create TF Records for TensorFlow.

## Train a TensorFlow model
The model we will be training is the SSD MobileNet architecture. SSD MobileNet models have a very small file size and can execute very quickly with compromising little accuracy, which makes it perfect for running in the browser.

When we say we are training the model, we are technically re-training the model. The model we are training has already been trained on millions of image and thousands of categories ranging from ducks to airplanes. This helps teach the model ideas like basic edges and shapes, letting us train it on the things we care about with little training data.


Set your python path to point to slim:
```bash
export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:`pwd`/slim
```

To train the model just run the following:
```bash
python -m object_detection.model_main \
  --pipeline_config_path=.tmp/pipeline.config \
  --model_dir=.tmp/checkpoint
```
> **Note:** Your model will continue to train endlessly. Stop the script by pressing `CTRL + C`, whenever you are satisfied.

## Convert the model to TensorFlow.js
While our model is training, it exports various `checkpoints`. However, `checkpoints` are a format dependent on the code that created the model. The export command will generate a graph in a format that can be used independently:
```bash
python -m quick_export_graph
```

We can then convert this graph to a TensorFlow.js model:
```bash
tensorflowjs_converter \
    --input_format=tf_saved_model \
    --output_node_names='Postprocessor/ExpandDims_1,Postprocessor/Slice' \
    exported_graph/saved_model \
    web_model
```
This script will generate a `web_model` directory from our TensorFlow graph, which is what we will use in our web app.
