---
title: Training a model
date: 1970-01-07
---
After we have collected and labeled our first round of images, we are ready train our model! Training the model is broken up into 2 parts:
1. Submit a training run to WML
2. Convert the model to TensorFlow.js

## Installation
To train our model we need to install the Watson Machine Learning Client and a few other requirements:
```bash
pip install -r requirements_wml.txt
```

## Submit a training run to WML
The model we will be training is the SSD MobileNet architecture. SSD MobileNet models have a very small file size and can execute very quickly with compromising little accuracy, which makes it perfect for running in the browser.

When we say we are training the model, we are technically re-training the model. The model we are training has already been trained on millions of image and thousands of categories ranging from ducks to airplanes. This helps teach the model ideas like basic edges and shapes, letting us train it on the things we care about with little training data.

To start training, run the following command:
```bash
python -m wml.start_training_run
```
> **Note:** This script will run for a long time and it may seem like nothing is happening, but at the end your model will be downloaded to the `exported_graph` directory.

## Convert the model to TensorFlow.js
Once the training script finishes running we can convert the graph to a TensorFlow.js model:
```bash
python -m scripts.convert --tfjs
```
This script will generate a `model_web` directory from our TensorFlow graph, which is what we will use in our web app.
