---
title: Training a model
order: 6
redirect_from:
  - /object-detection/cli/6.html
---
After we have collected and labeled our first round of images, we are ready to start training our model! 

## Installation
To train our model we need to install the Cloud Annotation CLI.

#### Homebrew (macOS)
If you are on macOS and using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/), you can install `cacli` with the following:
```bash
$ brew install cacli
```

#### Shell script (Linux / macOS)
If you are on Linux or macOS, you can install `cacli` with the following:
```bash
$ curl -sSL https://cloud.annotations.ai/install.sh | sh
```

#### Windows
1. Download the [binary](https://github.com/cloud-annotations/training/releases/download/v1.2.29/cacli_windows_x86_64.exe).
1. Rename it to `cacli.exe`.
1. `cd` to the directory where it was downloaded.
1. Run `cacli --version` to check that it's working.

> **(Optional)** Add cacli.exe to your `PATH` to access it from any location. 

#### Binary
Download the appropriate version for your platform from the [releases page](https://github.com/cloud-annotations/training/releases). Once downloaded, the binary can be run from anywhere. You don't need to install it into a global location. This works well for shared hosts and other systems where you don't have a privileged account.

Ideally, you should install it somewhere in your `PATH` for easy use. `/usr/local/bin` is the most probable location.

## Submit a training run to WML
The model we will be training is the SSD MobileNet architecture. SSD MobileNet models have a very small file size and can execute very quickly with compromising little accuracy, which makes it perfect for running on mobile devices or in the browser.

When we say we are training the model, we are technically re-training the model. The model we are training has already been trained on millions of image and thousands of categories ranging from ducks to airplanes. This helps teach the model ideas like basic edges and shapes, letting us train it on the things we care about with little training data.

To start training, run the following commands:
```bash
cacli login
cacli train
```
> **Note:** You can monitor the training run at any point by running `cacli progress <model_id>`.

## Download the model
Once the model training is complete, we can download our model:
```bash
cacli download <model_id> --tfjs --coreml --tflite
```
This will download a `model_*` directory from our TensorFlow graph, which is what we will use in our app.
