---
title: Training a model
date: 1970-01-07
---
After we have collected and labeled our first round of images, we are ready train our model! Training the model is broken up into 3 parts:
1. Download the training data
2. Train a TensorFlow model
3. Convert the model to TensorFlow.js

## Installation
To train our model we need to install TensorFlow and a few other requirements:
```bash
pip install -r requirements_classification.txt
```

## Download the training data
We can download our training data by running the following command:
```bash
python -m bucket.download
```

The script will download the image data in our bucket and organize it into folders under the directory `.tmp/data`.

## Train a TensorFlow model
The model we will be training is the MobileNet architecture. MobileNet models have a very small file size and can execute very quickly with compromising little accuracy, which makes it perfect for running on mobile devices.

When we say we are training the model, we are technically re-training the model. The model we are training has already been trained on millions of image and thousands of categories ranging from ducks to airplanes. This helps teach the model ideas like basic edges and shapes, letting us train it on the things we care about with little training data.

To train the model just run the following:
```bash
mkdir exported_graph
python -m classification.retrain \
  --image_dir=.tmp/data \
  --saved_model_dir=exported_graph/saved_model \
  --tfhub_module=https://tfhub.dev/google/imagenet/mobilenet_v1_100_224/feature_vector/1 \
  --output_labels=exported_graph/labels.txt
```
> **Note:** This script will take a while to run. If you're strapped for time try running the command with `--how_many_training_steps=500`

## Convert the model to Core ML and TensorFlow Lite
Models trained with TensorFlow are saved as Protocol Buffers (`.pb`) or "protobufs" for short. We can convert our model to a mobile usable format by running:
```
python -m scripts.convert --coreml --tflite
```
This script will generate an `.mlmodel` and `.tflite` file from our TensorFlow graph, which are compatible with iOS and Android respectively.